---
layout: guide
title: Intro
category: template-guide
tags: 
---
#Overview
The Argos framework has a unique relationship between argos-sdk and your application, as you may have noticed with the folder setup. The reason for this setup is to keep your application code as clean and modularized as possibled, this not only promotes better coding practices but also enables easier deployment of applications to the server keeping the single reference to the SDK.

##Starting Files
Using `argos-template` as a starting point provides the following files to get you started:

**index-dev.aspx**   
Development landing page. Pulls in CSS, libraries and initializes application. Use .html version for non-asp servers. All references and defaults are set to development versions.

**index.aspx**   
Production landing page. This file will be used when application is built and deployed. Use .html version for non-asp servers.

**src/Application.js**   
Application is the global object accessible anywhere using the `App` variable. It handles communication the underlying rendering library and handles topics like: navigation history, initializing views, global events. You may want to consider code that affects the entire app to be placed here: login, user info, session state, preference saving/loading etc.

**src/ApplicationModule.js**   
This file is the "load and register" module. All views and any supporting modules will be put as dependencies and referenced in this module. It also handles registering the built in toolbars and loading any external customization's.

**src/Views/Home.js**   
This is the built in Home page that is initially loaded and navigated to upon load. It is like a table of contents with links to the rest of your app.

**src/Views/MainToolbar.js and FooterToolbar.js**   
These two modules are for establishing a base top and bottom toolbars that inject standard mobile buttons such as back, home, top of page, etc.

**localization/en.js**   
This file sets up the culture configuration such as decimal places, digits, currency symbol, percent symbols. 

**localization/template/en.js**   
This file is empty as the app will be setup as english in default. When adding more locales their respective file within this folder will have overrides for all the strings and formatters in the application.

**content/**   
All css and image files.

**configuration/development.js and production.js**   
These two files contain the SData service setup information like URL, contract, and format type. `index-dev` uses development and `index` uses production.

**build/release.jsb2**   
This file is the build description, any new files (or deletion of files) will need to be updated in this definition.

**build/release.cmd and release.sh**   
These are the script options to run for this application such target folder, .net tool, java tool, what to xcopy etc.

##Views
Argos-SDK is built around the concept of Views with each View type designed to present the user data in the most functional manner. Each of the given View types are tightly bound to the format of data they represent: List View for listing multiple items, Detail View for displaying many properties of a single entity and Edit View for editing those properties. These base Views can be extended to provide specific purposes such as using the Edit View to create a login page, or the List View for a settings page.

The following properties and functions are set on every View and every derivative thereof.

####Properties
<pre class="brush: js">
id: '', // Must be unique to entire application. It is used to register and reference the view
titleText: '', // Default text to show in the Title bar
security: '', // can be used to determine if user has access - implementation left up to product
options: {}, // the data passed to the view from the previous view
refreshRequired: false, // during transition if this is true it will cause the view to refresh
widgetTemplate: Simplate, // the views HTML markup
domNode: HTMLNode, // all views are Dijits and domNode refers to the topmost container element defined in widgetTemplate
tools: {} // toolbars and their item definitions
</pre>

####Functions
<pre class="brush: js">
createToolLayout(); // Defines tools
startup(); // Called after View has been added to DOM
refreshRequiredFor(options); // Called before transition, sets refreshRequired and is passed the show options from the previous view
refresh(); // Called during transition if refreshRequired is true
show(options, transitionOptions); // called to transition to this view, options is set to views option property and transitionOptions is passed to the transition manager
</pre>