---
layout: guide
title: Simplate
category: template-guide
tags: simplate template-guide markup template
---
Simplate is powerful javascript templating function that greatly expands upon the printf concept. With a normal string substitution you define a format string with `$0` or `{0}` and pass in your arguments to get placed in the same order – first argument to 0, second argument to 1 and so on. Simplate takes this and says "Hey, this is javascript, everything is an object" and works upon passing in an object and scope and allowing you to use the properties in a normal manner.

But wait – there’s more! What if you want to run a little javascript here or there like a conditional statement or quick loop? You can do that too! And Simplates within Simplates within Simplates? Indeed, to your heart’s content.

###Define:
{% raw %}<pre class="brush: js">
var myTemplate = new Simplate( [ 'string', 'string', 'string'] );
</pre>{% endraw %}
The array will be joined automatically, these makes multi lined templates easy for humans to parse.

###Apply:
{% raw %}<pre class="brush: js">
var content = myTemplate.apply(myObject, scope);
</pre>{% endraw %}

###Formatting Options:
{% raw %}<pre class="brush: js">
`{%=   %}` – Evaluates contents and returns the result directly.
`{%:   %}` – Evaluates contents and returns the result as HTML encoded.
`{%!   %}` – Expects the contents to return a Simplate which is then applied with the same arguments as the current Simplate.
`{%$   %}` – Same as `{%= %}` but is performed with a silent try/catch granting safe execution.
`{%    %}` – Evaluates the contents as executable code
</pre>{% endraw %}


Inside all Simplate formatters the `$` object refers to the passed in object and `$$` refers to the scope. You then use normal javascript dot notation to access the properties of `$` and `$$`.

For a concrete example we want to create a list item for each item in a feed. Each item has a `$key` property and a `Description` property.

{% raw %}<pre class="brush: js">
var rowTemplate = new Simplate([
    '<li data-key="{%= $.$key %}">{%: $.Description %}</li>'
]);

var feed = [
    {$key: 1, Description: "Row 1"}, 
    {$key: 2, Description: "Row 2"}, 
    {$key: 3, Description: "Row 3"}
]; // data from outside, array of objects with $key and Description

var listNode = document.createElement('ul');
for (var i = 0; i < feed.length; i++)
{
    var htmlString = rowTemplate.apply(feed[i], this);
    dojo.place(listNode, htmlString, 'last'); // converts HTML string to DOM
}

// listNode may now be appended to document with all three rows
</pre>{% endraw %}


For a more in depth discussion including different ways of stating the contents please look at the demo page at github:
[https://github.com/SageScottsdalePlatform/simplate](https://github.com/SageScottsdalePlatform/simplate)