---
layout: guide
title: _Field
category: template-guide
tags: 
---
#_Field

Field is the base class for all field controls. It describes all the functions a field should support giving no implementation itself, merely a shell. The one function that `_Field` does provide is `validate`. The validate function is covered in the [How Edit Validation Works](How-Edit-Validation-Works.html) guide but to summarize:

* loops over each `validator` defined on the _Field

* Evaluate the result
   * If the validator is a RegExp, use return `!regExp.test(value)`
   * If the validator is a function, call and return the result of the function passing the value, _Field instance, and the `owner` property.
   * If the validator is an object and has a `test` key, follow the RegExp path.
   * If the validator is an object and has a `fn` key, follow the function path.

* If the result is true and the validator is an object with a `message` key:
  * If message is a function, call and return the result of the function passing the value, _Field instance and the `owner` property.
  * Otherwise, assume it is a string format and call dojo's `string.substitute` using the message as the format, `${0}` as the value, `${1}` as the fields name, `${2}` as the fields label property.
  * Save the result of the function or string substitution as the result itself.

* Return the result. False signifies that everything is okay and the field is valid, `true` or a `string message` indicates that it failed.

##Function List

* `constructor(o)` - mixes in the passed object over the _Field itself.
* `renderTo(node)` - Saves `node` as `this.containerNode` and calls dijit `this.placeAt()` into the container. The parent Edit view calls this function for each of its fields.
* `init()` - After a field is rendered in HTML the `init` function is called.
* `isDirty()` - When an Edit form is saved it only saves the values that are "dirty" back to the server. The field should implement this function as it determines if that field value has changed from the original.
* `enable()` - sets `this.disabled` to false and calls `this.onEnable()`. It is up to the field to implement logic for handling read-only/editing capabilities.
* `disable()` - sets `this.disabled` to true and calls `this.onDisable()`. It is up to the field to implement logic for handling read-only/editing capabilities.
* `isDisabled()` -  returns `this.disabled`.
* `show()` - sets `this.hidden` to false and calls `this.onShow()`.
* `hide()` - sets `this.hidden` to true and calls `this.onHide()`.
* `isHidden()` - returns `this.hidden`.
* `getValue()` - empty. Up to the field to implement this function to return the current value.
* `setValue(val, init)` - empty. Up to the field to implement this function to set the passed value and correctly handle the initial boolean (to work with the `isDirty` function).
* `clearValue()` - empty. Up to the field to implement this function to clear out the current value.
* `onEnable()` - empty.
* `onDisable()` - empty.
* `onShow()` - empty.
* `onHide()` - empty.
* `onChange()` - empty.

## Properties List
* `owner` - may be defined such as to the view. Used in validation as an additional parameter to any functions defined.
* `disabled` - used to indicate enabled state.
* `hidden` - used to indicate shown state.
* `widgetTemplate` - Simplate that defines the field
* `"default"` - Note must be in quotes as default is a reserved word in javascript. This applies a default value when inserting a new record, the default value is applied after the template entry but before the context and changes are applied.
* `applyTo` - this property works on all fields. When an Edit view is collecting values the `applyTo` property may be defined as a string path as to where the value should go instead of the `property` string:

<pre class="brush: js">
// Assume the following and the result of getValue returns {$key: 1, ContactName: 'Bob'}
{
name: 'Contact',
property: 'Contact'
}
// Edit view will save as:
// { Contact: { $key: 1, ContactName: 'Bob' } }

// With applyTo:
{
applyTo: '.',
name: 'Contact',
property: 'Contact'
}

// Edit view save as:
// { $key: 1, ContactName: 'Bob' }

// The applyTo: '.' is a shortcut to apply to the top level object being returns.
</pre>
